# Upgrade strategy for .NET releases

* Status: accepted
* Deciders: @Casper-Olsen, @ckr123, @sahma19, @Sejruppen, @tnickelsen, @Sondergaard
* Date: 2025-03-12

---

## Context and Problem Statement

.NET is released yearly in November alternating between releases under Standard Term Support (STS) and Long Term Support (LTS). At the time of writing there is at least two .NET releases with support at any given time with time to switch releases. See https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/platform/support/policy/dotnet-core for more details.

---

## Considered Options

* All .NET projects must be upgraded to latest .NET (LTS or STS) release at the same time
* All .NET projects must be on the latest LTS release
* All .NET projects **must** be on a .NET release that is supported. Responsible team for a domain **may** upgrade to latest .NET release for a single domain when the team decides to do so.
* ALL .NET projects **must** be upgraded to the latest LTS or STS versions, no later than 90 days, after the release of a major new LTS or STS release.

---

## Decision Outcome

We chose the option where teams **must** upgrade to the latest LTS or STS .NET versions, no later than 90 days after the release of a major new LTS or STS release

## Rationale

Team Atlas want to follow DataHub guidelines, which states that upgrading major .NET versions should happen 90 days after it was released. The 90 day buffer has been given to product teams to ensure that Microsoft has ironed out issues and bugs related to the release of the respective major LTS or STS versions.

This strategy sets the requirement that all .NET projects is **always** based on a supported .NET release.

It is up to the respective teams to ensure that .NET projects are running on the latest supported version.

**Note**: In this context we see Energy Track & Trace as a single domain. Upgrading Energy Track & Trace backend would require upgrading all services within Energy Track & Trace at the same time.
**Note**: Project Origin also acts as a single domain. Upgrading Project Origin would require upgrading all services within Project Origin at the same time.

### Positive Consequences

* Upgrading to latest .NET can be executed one domain at a time
* Time to unlock latest features in a .NET release is reduced
* Less accumulation of technical debt, because of neglecting upgrades.
* Being on the latest supported versions, is more secure, than staying outdated.

### Negative Consequences

* Depending on the amount of breaking changes between releases, resources have to be dedicated to fixing those, when upgrading .NET versions, in our domains.
